you
this lecture is about a specific
technique for contextual text mining
Carla contextual probabilistic allayed
in the semantic analysis in this lecture
we're going to continue discussing
contextual text mining and we're gonna
introduce contextual probabilistically
than the semantic analysis as exchanging
of PRSA for doing context your text
mining recall that in context affects
mining we hope to analyze topics in text
in consideration of the context so that
we can associate to the topics with
appropriate a context that we're
interested in so in this approach
contacts your probabilistic relatedness
semantic analysis or CPA is a the main
idea is to explicit the ad interesting
context variables into a generative
model recall that before when we
generate the texture we generally assume
we'll start with some topics and then
assemble words from some topics but here
we are going to add context variables so
that the coverage of topics and also the
content of topics will be tied into
context or in other words we're going to
let the context influence both the
coverage and content of a topic the
consequence is that this would enable us
to discover contextualized topics make
the topics more interesting more
meaningful because we can then have
topics that can be interpreted as
specific to a particular context that we
are interested in for example a
particular time period as extending of P
is a model C PRSA mainly does the
following changes firstly it would model
the conditional likelihood of text given
context that clearly suggests that the
generating of text would then depend on
context and that allows us to bring in
context into the generator
secondly it makes two specific
assumptions about the dependency of
topics on context one is to assume that
depending on the context depending on
different time periods or different
locations we assume that there are
different views of a topic or different
versions of word distributions that
characterize a topic and this assumption
allows us to discover different
variations of the same topic in
different context the other is that we
assume the topic of coverage also
depends on the context and that means
depending on the time or location we
might cover topics differently and then
again this dependency would then allow
us to capture the association of topics
with specific contents we can still use
the e/m algorithm to solve the problem
of parameter estimation and in this case
the estimate premise would naturally
contain context variables in particular
a lot of conditional probabilities of
topics given certain context and this
would allow us to do contacts your text
mining so this is the basic idea now we
don't have time to introduce this model
in detail but there are references here
that you can look into to know more
detail here I just want to explain the
high level ideas in more detail
particularly we're going to explain the
generation process of text era that has
contacts associated in such a model so
as you see here we can assume there are
the multiple topics for example some
topics might represent the themes like a
government response donation or the city
of new audience now this example is in
the context of Hurricane Katrina and
that hit New Orleans
now as you can see we assume there are
different views associated with the each
of the topics and these are humans v1 v2
v3 each view is a different version of
word distributions and these views are
tied to some context variables for
example tied to the location taxes of
the time July 2005 all the occupation of
the other being sociologist right now on
the right side you see now we assume the
document has context information so the
time is known to be July 2005 in
occasions taxes etc now such context
information is what we hope to model as
well so we're not going to just model
the task and so one idea here is to
model the variations of topical content
in different context and this gives us
different views of the world
distributions now on the bottom you will
see the theme in coverage of topic
coverage might also vary according to
these context because in the in the case
of a location like Texas people might
want to cover the rare topics more
that's a new audience as visualized here
but in a certain time period maybe a
particular topic enacted donation will
be covered more so this variation is
also considered in CDI assay so to
generate the such a document with
context we first also choose a view and
this view of course now could be from
any of these contexts let's say we have
taken this view that depends on the time
in the middle so now we have a specific
version of word distributions now you
can see some probabilities of words for
each topic now once we have chosen a
view now the situation will be very
similar to what happened in standard
care I say
we assume we have got a word
distribution associated with each topic
right and then next we also choose a
coverage from the bottom so we're going
to choose particular coverage and that
coverage before is fixed in PRSA and
it's higher to a particular document a
document has just one coverage
distribution now here because we
consider context so the distribution of
topics or the coverage of topics can
vary depending on the context that has
influenced the coverage so for example
we might pick a particular coverage and
say in this case and we pick will pick
the document specific coverage and now
with the coverage and these were
distributions we can generate the
document in exactly the same way as in
PSA so what it means we're going to use
the coverage to choose a topic to choose
one of these three topics let's say we
have picked let's say the Giro topic
then we draw a word from this particular
topic on the top okay so we might get a
warning government and then next time we
might choose a different topic and we'll
get donate etc right and here we
generate all the words and this is
basically the same process as in PSA now
so the main difference is when we obtain
the coverage and water distributions we
let the context to influence our choice
so in other words we have extra switches
that are tied to these context that
would control the choices of different
views of topics and the choices of
coverage and naturally the model will
have more parameters to estimate but
once we can estimate those premises that
involve the context then we will be able
to understand context to specific views
of topics or context of specific
coverage subtopics and this is precisely
what we want in contacts your text
mining so here are some sample results
from using such a model not necessary
exactly the same model but
seven models so on this slide you see
some simple results of comparing news
articles about Iraq war and Afghanistan
war now we have about 30 articles on
Iraq war and 26 articles on Afghanistan
law now in this case the goal is to to
review the common topics covering both
sets of articles and the differences or
variations of the topic in each of the
two collections so in this case the
context that is explicitly specified by
the topic or collection and we see the
results here show that there is a common
theme that corresponding to cluster 1
here in this column and that there was a
common theme indicating that United
Nations is involved in both Wars it's a
common topic covered in both sets of
articles and that's indicated by the
high probability words shown here United
Nations now if you know the background
of course this is not surprising and
this it's this topic is indeed very
relevant to both was if you look at the
column further and what's interesting is
that the next two cells of war
distributions actually tell us
collapsing specific variations of the
topic of United Nations so it indicates
that in Iraq war United Nations was more
involved in weapon inspections whereas
in Afghanistan war it was more involved
in maybe aid to Northern Alliance it's a
different variation of the topic of
United Nations so this shows that by
bringing in the context in this case
different Wars or different collections
of text we can have topical variations
tied to these contexts to review the
differences of coverage of United
Nations in the two wars now similarly if
you look after the second cluster plus
two it has to do with the killing of
people and against not surprising if you
know the background about the wars or
the wars involve killing of people but
matching if you are the you're not
familiar with the taxi connections I
have a lot of text articles and such a
technique can reveal the common topics
covered in both sets of articles it can
be used to review common topics in
multiple sets of articles as well if you
look at them of course in that column of
trust - you see variations of cleaning
of people and that correspond to
individual of different contexts and
here there's another example of results
obtained from blog articles about a
hurricane Cucina now in this case what
you see here is visualization of the
trends of topics over time and the top
one shows just the temporal change of
two topics one is oil price and one is
about the flooding of the city new
audience this these topics are obtained
from blog articles about the hurricane
katrina and people have talked about
these topics and in addition to some
other topics but the visualization shows
that with this technique we can have
conditional distribution of time given a
topic so this allows us to plot this
conditional probability to channel the
curves like what you're seeing here we
see that initially the two curves
tracked each other very well but later
we see the topic of new audience was
mentioned again but oil price was not
and this turns out to be the time period
when another hurricane Hurricane Rita
hit the region and that apparently
tricked the more discussion about the
founding of the city the bottom curve
shows the coverage of this topic about
the flooding of the city by block
articles in different locations and also
shows some shift of
coverage that might be related to
people's my braiding from the state of
Louisiana to Texas for example so in
this case we can see the time can be
used as context to reveal trends of
topics this is some additional result on
spatial patterns and this in this case
is about the topic of governmental
response and there was some criticism
about slow response of government in the
case of Hurricane Katrina and the
discussion now is covered in different
locations and these visualizations to
show the coverage in different weeks of
the event and initially it's covered
mostly in the victim states in the south
but then gradually to spread into other
locations but in week 4 which is shown
on the bottom on the Left we see a
parent that's very similar to the very
first week on the top left and that's
when again
Hurricane Rita hit the region so such a
technique would allow us to use location
as context to examine variations of
topics and of course the model is a
completely general so you can apply this
to any other fractions of text to review
spatial temporal patterns here's even
another packaging of this kind of model
where we look at the the use of the
model for event impact analysis so here
we're looking at the research articles
information retrieval I are particularly
sick I our papers and the topic we are
focused on is about the retrieval models
and you can see the top would top words
with hyper billion is about this model
on the left and then we hope to examine
the impact of two events one is the
start of track for text retrieval
conference this is a major evaluation
effort sponsored by US government and it
was launched in 1992 around that time
and that had is known to have made an
impact
the topics of research information
retrieval the other is the publication
of a seminal paper by craft and part and
this is about the name with modern
approach to information retrieval it's
also known to have made a high impact on
information retrieval research so we
hope to use this kind of model to
understand impact and the idea is simply
to use the time as context and use these
events to divide the time periods into a
period before the event and another
after this event and then we can compare
the differences of the topics the
coverage and their agencies etc so in
this case the results show until not
before track the study of retrieval
models was mostly a vector space model
Pune and model etc but the after chapter
apparently the study of virtual models
have involved a lot of other words that
seem to suggest some different than
retrieval tasks though so for example
email was using them Enterprise Search
tasks and sub-tropical entry was another
task introduced related by track on the
bottom we see the variations that are
correlated with the publication of the
language model paper before we have
those classical and probabilistic model
logic model boolean model etc but after
99 eight that we see clear dominance of
language model as progress models and we
see words in economic model estimation
on frame etc so this technical here can
use event as context to understand the
impact of the event again the technique
is general so you can use this to
analyze the impact of any event here are
some suggested readings the first is
paper about simple exchanging of PRSA to
enable cross collection comparison and
it's to perform comparative text mining
to allow us to extract common topics
shared by multiple collections and there
are variations in each collection the
second one is
the men have about the CPI is a model
with a discussion of a lot of
applications the third one has a lot of
details about the special temporal
patterns for Hurricane Katrina example